It's necessary to test all of the business logic inside of the service class.
And the last lesson we set up a class that mocks the great repository dependency.
It creates a real object out of great service, and then it injects the grade repository mock into it.
We're essentially wiring this great repository mark into the following variable.
This allows us to test the grade service in complete isolation because we can control exactly what the
mock can or can't return.
In this lesson, you will unit test every single meaningful method inside of grade service.
The unit testing process is fairly simple.
The test annotation tells J Unit to run the method as a unit test.
And there are three steps to writing a unit test arrange means mock the data that's needed to carry
out the unit test.
You kind of just prepare everything until you're ready to act, until you're ready to call the actual
method that you want to test.
After you call your method, you need to assert.
You need to check if it's actually behaving correctly.
So we're going to start by testing if get grades is actually able to retrieve the grades from the repository.
The test annotation tells J Unit to treat the method that follows as a test.
We're going to call the method.
Get grades from repo.
Test.
Okay.
Step one is to mock the data that's needed to carry out the unit test.
The nice thing is telling the mock what data to return reads like English.
For example, when the service calls, grade reports get grades, then it should return a list of grades.
This translates to the following code.
So inside the unit test, we're going to write when the service object calls the grade repository mock
grades.
Then we're going to want this to return an array list.
Then return arrays, dot as list.
And the array list that it returns will contain two objects.
The first grade object will be Harry potions C minus.
The second one will be her mining.
Breath Mincy.
A-plus.
Now that we've prepared the data, the next step is to act.
The next step is to call the method that you want to test.
The method that we want to test is grade service.
Get grades.
And we want to test if it's actually able to retrieve the grades from the repo.
We're going to store the result in an array list, list, grade.
Result is equal to whatever comes from grade service get grades.
And now that we've called the method that we want to test, the last step is to assert, is it actually
behaving correctly?
In other words, we're going to perform a sanity check that ensures grade service, get grades, is
actually getting the grades from grade repo to get grades.
And we can do that with an assertion we'll say assert equals.
And here we compare the value that we're expecting against the actual value.
So I expect the name and index zero to equal Harry and then the actual value is going to be the name
at index zero.
Let's perform another assertion.
I expect the subject at index one to be arithmetic.
And the actual value is going to be the subject at index one.
Run your test.
In the assertion passes this confirms that great service don't get grades is actually getting the grades
from grade repo to get grades.
Now before we continue, I want to emphasize that we didn't actually need to test grade service to get
grades because the code here is very trivial.
Which leads me to my rule of thumb only unit test methods that offer meaningful logic.
I only unit tested get grades as an example of arranging the data that you need for your test.
Acting on that data by calling the method you want to test and then making assertions to make sure that
the method you're testing actually works.
That being said, we're not going to be testing the following methods because the code inside is very
simple and I'm pretty sure it works.
That leads us to unit test number two.
We're going to test if get grade index is able to return the correct index when it receives an ID.
This method contains meaningful business logic, which makes it vulnerable to bugs, and it's really
important to write a unit test that ensures it's behaving correctly as before.
The test annotation tells J Unit to treat the method that follows as a test.
And I'm going to call the method grade index test.
Now step one is to mock the data that's needed to carry out the unit test.
If you look inside of grade service dot get grade index it calls get grades and in turn get grades calls
grade report get grades.
So we need to mock the data that this method returns.
We can just copy and paste what we had before.
When grade repo get grades gets called, we wanted to return the following ArrayList.
And for us to be able to test get grade index, we need to pass in a bunch of IDs.
So we're going to need access to the data store.
So we'll need to call grade service, dot get grades before we can even start testing, get to grade
index because we need to grab the ID of each grade and we'll just store this in a result variable.
Step one is done.
We've already marked the data that's needed to carry out the tests.
And now step two is to act.
We need to call the get grade index function to make sure that it's working correctly.
We'll say grade service dot get grade index.
The first ID we're going to pass in is the one for Harry.
And the second ID we're going to pass in.
Is invalid.
I'll just say one, two, three.
So I'll store the return value here into a variable called valid, and I'll store the return value here.
Any variable called not found.
Okay.
The last step is to assert is to check if get grid index is behaving correctly.
We can do that with an assertion.
So using assert equals, we expect the valid index to be zero.
So when we give get grade index Harry's ID, we expect it to return an index of zero.
But will it?
Let's find out.
And we'll make another assertion.
Here.
We expect that if we give a get grade index some random ID, then it's going to return constants dot
not found.
So we're going to make sure constants dot not found is what this not found variable equals.
And we get a null pointer exception.
What could that be?
Well, thankfully, this leads me to something else and that we can set up breakpoints.
So upon calling get grade index, we're getting a null pointer exception.
What I'll do is I will debug my test.
And I'm going to step inside, get grid index, press the step inside button.
I'm going to step out and step back in.
All right, step out.
Step back in now.
And it works.
So this ID belongs to Harry.
First step loops through get grades.
Interesting here.
It's calling get grade.
If I put a breakpoint here.
We completely forgot to mark what get grade should return when it's called.
So what it's doing is it's returning a null.
Get great returns and null and attempting to call a method from a null results in a null pointer exception.
So we actually didn't finish step one.
We mocked what a great report get.
Grades should return, but we didn't mock what this method should return.
So we're going to have to stop our test.
And fix it up.
So what I'm going to do just to keep things simple.
Is.
Here.
We'll say grade.
Grade is equal to a new grade.
We'll copy this over.
And instead of this returning an ArrayList of two grades, it will just return one there is no need
to return to.
And now I can mark the data that grade.
Reporter Grade should return when it's called.
So here we'll say.
When.
Grade.
Repository dot.
Get grade.
At Index zero.
Then it should return.
The following.
Great.
Okay.
We don't need this anymore.
Here.
We can just say Gray Dot, get ID.
So now we've properly applied step one, which is to mark the data that's needed to carry out the unit
test.
When grade three get grades it's called, then it should return an array list.
When grade report get grade gets called for an index of zero, then it should return the following grade.
So now we've successfully marked the data that's needed to carry out the unit test.
And here we're checking when grade service calls get grade index, is it actually able to get an index
of zero?
And then we're checking if grade service calls get grade index for an ID of 1 to 3, is it actually
able to get a constant dot not found running our test?
And it works out beautiful.
So now test number three is to check if get grade by ID.
Is returning the correct grade when you give it an ID.
So we'll create a new test.
We will call the test return grade by ID test.
Step one is to mock the data that's needed to carry out this test.
So we're just going to copy what we have over here.
Because if you look inside of get grade by ID, it calls get grade index which in turn calls get grades
as well as get grade.
So we need to mock what these methods return when they are called.
Now that we've prepared the data, the next step is to act.
The next step is to call the method that you want to test.
So first we're going to grab the grades ID and store it in a string variable.
String ID is equal to grade.
Get ID.
Then we'll call great service dot get grade by ID and store the result in a grade variable.
So here we'll say grade result is equal to the return value.
The last step is to check if get grade by ID is behaving correctly and we can do that with an assertion
we're going to use assert equals and we expect the grade that gets returned to equal the following object.
When we pass in the following ID, we expect get grade by ID to return the correct results.
The result that we're expecting is this grade, and we're going to see if that's the actual case.
Nice get greyed by ID is working correctly.
Now let's unit test our fourth method.
We're going to check if submit grade is able to actually add a grade.
This method contains two things to test.
The first test is to verify the addition of a new grade.
So like before, we're going to have to go back and create another test.
We'll say public void.
And grade.
Test.
And like before, we need to mock what get grades and get grade return so we can just use the following
code to prepare the data.
This test will check if submit grade calls add grade.
If the index isn't found.
So the next step is to call the method that you want to test.
We're going to create a new grade that doesn't already exist.
We'll say grade.
New grade.
Is equal to a new grade object.
We'll say her mining.
Arithmetic.
A-plus.
And then we'll submit the grade.
Grade service.
Dart submit grade.
New grid.
And how can we test if this works?
How can we test if submit grade is actually calling add grade.
The Verify assertion can verify how many times something happened.
It accepts three arguments.
The mock how many times you expect a mock method to be called as well as the method.
We're going to verify that.
Ad grade gets called at least once when we submit a new grade that doesn't exist in our data store.
So we'll say verify.
First you pass in your mock grade repo mock.
We're going to check if the method gets called once.
Time's not.
Time out.
The wanted number of invocations is one and we're going to check if add grade.
New grade gets called at least once.
Run your test.
And it does.
So we can rest assured that submit grade is working correctly.
When you submit a new grade that doesn't exist inside of your data store, then it's going to call add
grade.
All right.
Unit test number five is to test if submit grade is updating an existing grade.
Like before I'm going to create another test.
We'll say public void update grade test.
And we can prepare the data in much the same way.
When this gets called, we wanted to return an array list of one grade.
When this gets called, we want it to return that same grade.
And now step number two is to actually call the method that you want to test, the method that you're
actually interested in.
What we're going to do is we'll say grade service.
Dot submit grade and we'll resubmit the grade.
But before that we'll say grade dot set score and we'll set it equal to an A minus.
And once again, we can verify how many times something happened.
We're going to verify if.
Grade repo marked update grade gets called at least once.
So the muck is great repository.
We're going to check.
The wanted number of invocations is one and we're going to check if update grade for the following grade
at index zero.
Does this function get called when we submit an existing grade?
Run your test.
And it does.
This confirms that when you pass in an existing grade and to submit grade, it calls the appropriate
method.
When you pass a method that doesn't exist already inside of the data store inside of submit grade,
then it's going to call the add grade method.
All right.
If I were to run every single test in my class.
They all pass, which confirms that every method inside of grade service is working correctly.
We tested submit grade, get grade by DX, get grade index.
We also test it gets grades which we really shouldn't have because it was really trivial.
But anyways, we can rest assured that our application or our great service class for that matter,
doesn't have any bugs.
In this lesson, you wrote a unit test for every meaningful method inside of grade service.
The passing test cases imply that our methods are behaving correctly, and we can rest assured that
there aren't any bugs.